Know it's time that we learn how to work with rabid MQ and develop applications with it to do that in
this section we're going to start by how to learn using Rabbitt template with spraying.
So to start with I'm going to create a new project with intelligent and of course I'm going to use Spring
initialiser and I'll hit next and from there I'm going to say com dot rabbit.
Q And my artifact is going to be like rabbit MQ D-Mo..
All right.
And I'm going to leave everything as is and I'll hit next and from the dependency section I'll go right
to do messaging part and all select rabit MQ.
Simple as that.
And then I'm going to hit next.
Again and I'm going to hit finish here we go.
Our project is now being created by intelligent and our dependencies are being resolved by the ID.
And let's talk about them for a moment.
When we go to our palmtop XML file we're seeing that we have the springboards partner parent project
as the parent of our palm Dodik smell.
And after that we have our dependencies and we have the AM Cupie dependency.
Just like you see here.
All right.
Our project is now being resolved by our ID and we can start working on our Rabbitte template.
So let's go to our source directory and open our main application Java class in our class.
We're going to do several things to make use of Rabbitte template.
We're of course going to use an auto water dependency of Rabbitte template so to do that.
I'll just go blow here and I'll say private and Rabbitt template just like that.
And of course I'm going to order wire it so I can use it in my code.
Here we go.
Let's get rid of that notification.
And all right to actually make use of Rabbitte template.
I'm going to have to implement a command line runner so I can run my code when my application launches.
So to do that I'm going to go here to my class definition and implement command line runner.
Here we go.
And my idea is warning me against that.
I have to implement the run method coming out of command line runner.
So to do that all can click here or I can click and control and in Mac OS so I can hit implement that.
And also like run and all that.
OK here we go.
We have our ID to run method coming out of command line runner.
So let's see how we can use Rabbitt template now.
So I'm going to say Rabbitt template and let's see what methods we're going to get wet rabbit template.
And as you can see we have a bunch of methods starting with Colewort and sent and overridden methods.
And as you can see we have also Colewort send and receive.
And this is a very long list of methods from Rabbitte template we have ways to get exchanges routing
keys.
We can write handlers.
We can just simply receive messages from queues and exchanges.
We have simply unlimited lists of ways to implement our code red rabbit template.
But for the sake of our territorial for this section especially I'm going to use convert and sound method
of Rabbitte template it is the simplest way to exchange messages with rabbit MQ Broecker so to do that
I'm going to say convert and send.
And the basic the most simple way to send messages to rabid MQ is by using an object.
And I should note here something about rabid MQ and especially about Rabbitte template Rabbitt template
allows us to send any kind of messages to rabit them.
Q It or be it a simple string message or a whole object containing fields subfields properties and everything
and maybe even a large file like an empty tree you file an image file or a movie file.
Maybe you can simply send and receive anything with rabbit in Q and you can send them and receive them
with Rabbitte template of course.
So to send our message Rabbitt template with the simplest way I'm going to use the object way and I'm
going to hit enter now and I'm simply going to provide a message to Rabbitt them.
Q And I'll say hello from our first message.
Here we go.
All right.
Our message is now ready to be delivered to rabid MQ.
Let's run our project and see what's going to happen.
Our project is starting up now and let's make it a little bit bigger so we can see everything clearly
and our application is up and we can see that our message is delivered to rabid.
Q How can we say that we can simply say that our connection is being made to our broker.
As you can see with this line here if it failed to connect to our rabid MQ broker it will simply say
that it could not connect to our rabid MQ at the predefined part and host.
And as you just saw here we didn't define anything in our application properties or anywhere.
We just simply use a default binding Stiefel ports and halts configuration for rabbit MQ in our souping
application.
And we just started developing our application right away.
Simple as that you don't have to define a specific port or Hos. for them.
Q If you installed your rabid MQ in your machine or in your environment you can simply send your messages
using the default binding which is at the 5 6 7 2 or maybe 1 5 6 7 2 which are the default ports for
rabit MQ.
All right.
Let's see if our message is being delivered to our broker to check that out.
I'm going to open up chrome
and we have our rabbit named Q dashboard.
Let's go to overview.
From our overview.
Let's go to our exchanges.
And of course since we didn't provide anything in your routing key any queue configuration any binding
our messages just simply delivered to our default am Cupie.
And as you can see we have a spike right here which is just around the time that we sent our messages.
And if we tried to check this message out we simply can't because we simply don't have any bindings
to this default Xchange in rabidity.
Q And if we go over to this information provided to us by rabit MQ dashboard it says did the full exchange
as implicitly bound to every q with a routing key equal to the q name.
It is not possible to explicitly bind to or unbind from the default exchange.
It also cannot be delete it.
So it simply says our message is routed to all the queues in our rabbit name.
Q A message coming to the default Xchange as it states here routed to all the queues in rabbit cute
with the routing key equal to the queue name.
So if we go to our queues and try to see what we have there we have our test queue that we created in
our earlier sections and if we tried to fetch that message we simply can't because our test queue doesn't
have any binding to the default queue in rabbit queue because it is only binded to the text Xchange
which doesn't have our message.
And if we tried to get messages and it's going to say the queue is empty.
So as you can see working with default queues and Xchange is kind of problematic with rabid MQ because
you simply cannot know what your message is going to be delivered because you're not providing any queue
or exchange configuration or even routing.
So as we see with this example using convert and sand object method is kind of a danger because with
this way our message is simply delivered to keep the default Exchange.
Let's try to improve our message and try to deliver it to our queues and exchanges we created in our
early elections which are the test Q for Q and for Xchange the test Xchange.
All right so let's go back to our code and let's change our method.
And I'm simply going to delete this line and I'll say convert and send.
So let's select the Xchange routing key an object Methot and try to implement our changes for avideo
queue for the Xchange.
I'm going to say test the exchange
and forward routing key.
I'll say test routing.
Let's fix that typo.
Here we go.
And for the message I'm again going to say hello from coat.
Simple as that.
So let's just rerun our application and see what's going to happen now.
All right.
Our message seems to be delivered to them.
Q As we can see from this line here because again it would have thrown an exception if it could not
connect to to our broker.
So let's switch back to our dashboard for abit in queue.
And as you can see our exchange has a spike just right here.
As you can see and if we go to our Qs and our queue doesn't seem to be receiving any message that is
simply because we didn't provide any binding for the routing key and our routing queue was again test
routing and we didn't have any binding for that for the test Xchange.
If we go over to our exchanges section again and click on our test Xchange we can see that we have a
single binding for the test queue and it doesn't have in a routing key as test routing.
So if we try to get messages from our test queue we're going to see that we don't have any messages
and let's click get messages.
And as you can see our queue is simply and the now to receive this message to bind our routing key with
our QNX change to connect them.
Let's go to queue's and from cue's let's just create a new queue and I'm going to name this to you as
router.
Q Okay and let's copy the name and I'll simply click add.
Q All right.
Now let's go to exchanges and bind his queue to our test Xchange or click test exchange and from there
I'm going to provide the name of my queue and forward routing.
I'll say test routing.
All right.
So now I'm just going to hit bind and here we go.
Our grouted Q Is binded to our test Xchange so to test that out.
Let's go back to our application and rerun it simply just rerun it and see what's going to happen again.
All right.
Our message seems to be delivered to rabid Q as we can see in the statement right here.
Let's go back to our dashboard and see what happened this time.
All right.
We have spikes in our exchange.
As you can see and let's go back to our Qs.
And here we go.
We have a message ready to be delivered to an exchange or a queue in a crowded queue.
As you can see here we have a total of one.
If we click on our rather queue you can again see the spike in our queue with the message waiting in
our queue to be delivered to the subscriber.
All right.
So to see the message let's go down and get our messages from our queue.
So I'll hit get messages.
And here we go.
We are.
Hello from code message in our crowded queue in rabidity.
Q dashboard so let's just go back to our code see what we just developed and what happened in this code.
So we used the convert and sound method with Xchange routing key and with the message that we're going
to publish for the Xchange definition we used our test Xchange and for drownding we said we're going
to use test routing which is simply the routing that we defined for the router.
Q And how we did that we did that using the exchanges section.
We went over to our text exchange and we binded our router.
Q With the test routing just like we saw here and then we simply published our Hello from code message
and that message simply received by the task Xchange years and test exchange with the help of its test
routing binding delivered it to our test queue or the name of our section routed queue as you can see
here are messages still in our queue simply because there are no listeners for this.
Queue so rabidly.
Q simply cannot deliver this message to anyone.
It is still waiting there.
And if we check it out again we can still see it just like that.
So we can stay a couple of findings about rather template and how things work with grabbing them.
Q First we have to be careful about the way that we send our message to either an exchange or a queue.
We have to be specific about our exchanges queues and routings because otherwise if we dont provide
any exchanges binding or a routing key our messages are going to be delivered to default exchanges and
default queues.
So that way our messages can get lost in the system.
We have to be explicit about our exchanges queues and routing keys.
This is a really key point in using rabbit template and of course Rabbitte MQ.